---
layout: single
title: no title
date: '2016-06-18T08:19:38-06:00'
tags:
- travel
- why
- journey
- costarica
- going
tumblr_url: http://amaliewanders.tumblr.com/post/146105525914/i-guess-once-youre-hooked-on-something-theres
---
I guess once you’re hooked on something there’s almost no way back. After the trip to Norway last summer (http://10daysinnorway.tumblr.com/) with my Belarusian friend Anja, I couldn’t stop thinking about quitting my English teacher’s job in a public school and going somewhere to travel, to experience different cultures, to challenge myself in a completely different environment, in a way - to feel lost.Throughout the first semester at work, I thought about traveling and quitting my job 24/7, although I also had doubts whether to leave it or not. But at the beginning of the second semester, I just told the headmistress that I was going to quit the job in May. Since that day I’ve had so many signs either in a form of poems or songs that have once again ensured that the decision I had made was right. For a while, I had no clue to which country I wanted to go in 6 months. I had ideas about going to Israel, Thailand, or Indonesia but the unifying factor of these ideas was the climate - I wanted to travel to a warmer place than Latvia, to a place where the average sunny days per year would exceed 72 days of sun at least 2-3 times. At the end, I just decided to continue my procrastination till May and go with the flow to see what other travel destination ideas might come my way. I’m sure that everything in life happens for a reason (the stupid haircut I got when I was in grade 4 definitely had a huge impact on my life) whether it’s about places, situations, or people. Especially, during the last couple of years, some people have inspired me greatly.  In a way, they’ve served as unique triggers. Either they have supported, motivated, taught, criticized me, or been with me for even a tiny period of time, something has changed in me due to meeting them. So I thank you, my dear triggers, each and everyone for being there because without you I wouldn’t be where I am now - on my way towards a wonderful adventure.At the end of March I bought my one-way ticket to Costa Rica because of a certain trigger person, because of pink glasses, because of the warm climate, because I thought it would be amazing to hike through the jungle, because I was naive and I had expectations, because I just had the urge to buy that ticket.And now in 5 days, I’m leaving. On my own. Without a strict travel plan, without almost any information about Costa Rica (because I want to explore everything on the spot) but with survival Spanish knowledge, Workaway host, and an enthusiastic belief that everything is going to be great. And if not, it’s still going to be great because of the experience. First stop - San José.
